SHARC PROCESSOR:
The SHARC processor integrates a SHARC+ SIMD core, L1
memory crossbar, I-cache/D-cache controller, L1 memory
blocks, and the requester/completer ports. The SHARC processor supports a modified Harvard architec-
ture in combination with a hierarchical memory structure. L1
memories typically operate at the full processor speed with little
or no latency
L
1 memory:
the ADSP-2159x/ADSP-SC59x memory map.
Each SHARC+ core has a tightly coupled 5 Mb L1 SRAM. Each
SHARC+ core can access code and data in a single cycle from
this memory space. The Arm Cortex-A5 core can also access
this memory space with multicycle accesses.
In the SHARC+ core private address space, both cores have L1
memory.
SHARC+ core memory-mapped register (CMMR) address
space is 0x00000000 through 0x0003FFFF in normal word
(32-bit). Each block can be configured for different combina-
tions of code and data storage. Of the 5 Mb SRAM, up to 1 Mb
can be configured for data memory (DM), program memory
(PM), and instruction cache. Each memory block supports sin-
gle-cycle, independent accesses by the core processor and I/O
processor. The memory architecture, in combination with its
separate on-chip buses, allows two data transfers from the core
and one from the direct memory access (DMA) engine in a
single cycle.
The SRAM of the processor can be configured as a maximum of
160k words of 32-bit data, 320k words of 16-bit data,
106.7k words of 48-bit instructions (or 40-bit data), or combi-
nations of different word sizes up to 5 Mb. All of the memory
can be accessed as 8-bit, 16-bit, 32-bit, 48-bit, or 64-bit words.
Support of a 16-bit floating-point storage format doubles the
amount of data that can be stored on chip.
Conversion between the 32-bit floating-point and 16-bit float-
ing-point formats is performed in a single instruction. Whereas
each memory block can store combinations of code and data,
accesses are most efficient when one block stores data using the
DM bus for transfers, and the other block stores instructions
and data using the PM bus for transfers.
Using the DM and PM buses, with each bus dedicated to a
memory block, assures single-cycle execution with two data
transfers. In this case, the instruction must be available in the
cache
L1 On-Chip Memory Bandwidth
The internal memory architecture allows programs to have four
accesses at the same time to any of the four blocks, assuming no
block conflicts. The total bandwidth is realized using both the
DMD and PMD buses (2 × 64-bits CCLK speed and 2 × 32-bit
SYSCLK speed).
nstruction and Data Cache
The ADSP-2159x/ADSP-SC59x processors also include a
traditional instruction cache (I-cache) and two data caches
(D-caches, one each for PM/DM) with parity support for all
caches. These caches support one instruction access and two
data accesses over the DM and PM buses per CCLK cycle. The
cache controllers automatically manage the configured L1
memory. The system can configure part of the L1 memory for
automatic management by the cache controllers. The sizes of
these caches are independently configurable from 0 to 128 kB
each. The memory not managed by the cache controllers is
directly addressable by the processors. The controllers ensure
the data coherence between the two data caches. The caches
provide user controllable features such as full and partial lock-
ing, range bound invalidation, and flushing.
ore Memory-Mapped Registers (CMMR)
The core memory-mapped registers (CMMR) control the
L1 instruction and data cache, branch target buffer (BTB),
L2 cache, parity error, system control, debug, and monitor
functions.
SHARC+ CORE

EVAL-MELODY-8 Evaluation Board  
FEATURES 
HDMI input and output with HDCP 1.4 technology support 
Audio decoding and processing using the ADSP-21569 
Differential line level analog audio output 
EQUIPMENT NEEDED 
Analog Devices ICE-2000 USB to JTAG adapter (required for 
updating the ADSP-21569 firmware) 
1 to 3 DB25 to RCA cables, such as the CS-2436-06 from 
Infinite Cables (required to listen to the analog audio) 
Straight through serial cable: DB9 (required for updating the 
ADSP-BF524 firmware) 
Xilinx platform cable USB (required to program the XC2C256) 
SOFTWARE NEEDED 
PC with a licensed copy of CrossCore® Embedded Studio 
Rev. 2.9.0 for Windows® (required for updating the ADSP-
21569 firmware)  
Xilinx ISE Design Suite 14.7 (required to program the XC2C256) 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION 
The EVAL-MELODY-8 board is a platform that allows users to 
evaluate Analog Devices, Inc., products intended for decoding 
high quality, digital audio signals. 
The EVAL-MELODY-8 board includes a Blackfin® ADSP-
BF524 processor for system control and a SHARC® 
ADSP-21569, which is a SHARC+® single core, high performance, 
digital signal processor for audio decoding. The evaluation board 
also includes the ADV7625 High-Definition Multimedia 
Interface (HDMI®) transceiver with high bandwidth digital 
content protection (HDCP) 1.4 technology. To order the EVAL-
MELODY-8 board, the user must be licensed for the HDCP 1.4 
technology. 
Full specifications for the ADSP-21569 are listed in the  
ADSP-21569 data sheet. Full specifications for the ADSP-BF524 
are listed in the ADSP-BF524 data sheet. Consult the data  
sheets in conjunction with this user guide when using the EVAL-
MELODY-8 board.